# Software-Maintainability-Prediction
Software Maintenance is a long process and is the longest phase in the software development life cycle. Once the software is developed and delivered, maintenance plays an important role in the success of the software. The prediction of the effort required for software maintainability would result in effective management. In this paper, we used ensemble machine learning techniques to predict accurate effort required to maintain a software. Given two datasets, we implemented various machine learning algorithms to predict accuracy. The results show that the prediction using ensemble learning methods is more accurate due to less error. The least error in prediction is obtained while using Gradient Boost Classifier. Therefore, a more accurate prediction is obtained by using Gradient Boost machine learning algorithm.

In this paper, we have presented different ensemble methods and individual algorithms for predicting the software maintenance. Initially we have applied basic machine learning (linear regression, SVR, and ANN) to predict the software maintenance and compared these results with the ensemble methods. Four well-known prediction models (AdaBoost, Gradient Boost, XGBoost, and CatBoost) were considered in ensemble approaches. Two publicly available software maintenance datasets were used to study and assess the effectiveness of prediction utilising ensemble methods (QUES and UIMS). After evaluating the datasets using the given algorithms and methods, the findings show that ensemble approaches are delivering more accurate and consistent predictions than individual algorithms hence it is more accurate. It is important to note that ensemble methods are computationally more expensive than the individual algorithms however, the advantages of the ensemble with respect to prediction accuracy. After evaluating the methods, we discovered that Pred(0.3) and MMRE values are having better results for Gradient Boost compared to other ensemble methods (Adaboost, XGBoost, CatBoost). Therefore, out of all the ensemble methods, Gradient Boost offers a more accurate prediction of software maintenance. 

#You can find the published paper from the below attached link :-
https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/10135034
